Name: Jeremy Xie
utln: jxie05

Answer the questions below, and submit your answers under the assignment
"MetroSim Design Checkoff" on Gradescope. You must sign up for a design
checkoff slot with a TA to discuss your provided answers (see spec for link).

Unless otherwise specified, your answers below should be *brief*: no more
than three sentences/question.

        
1. Are you comfortable with reading from stdin (user input) and a text file 
in C++? Are you comfortable reading different types (e.g. ints and strings)?
For this one, don't just answer 'yes' if you are. Write out which data 
types you will need and which functions you will call. 

Answer: I am confortable with reading from stdin and a text file in C++. 
To read in std input, I would have to implement a variable that takes in the
value that the user inputs. Specifically, I would have to make sure the user's
inputs for each variable matches up with the type of input I recieve. To read
in a text file, I would have to use an input stream to read in the items in
the file.

2. What happens when I move the train (with 'm m') when the train is at the
last provided station? 

Answer: The train should move back to the first station.

3. What classes will you need in your program? What interfaces (i.e. 
functions) do they each provide? 

Answer: I will need a class for MetroSim, passengers, and the passengerQueue.
The passenger class will have the print function and will hold the id number,
destination, and arrival for each passenger. The passengerQueue will hold
functions to organize the different passengers in the queue. Specifically, it
will have functions that call the front and back of the queue, the size of the
queue, how to add passengers to the back of the queue, how to remove 
passengers from the back of the queue, and how to print out every passenger in
the queue. Finally, MetroSim would need a class to initialize a train for the 
passengers.

4. How will you implement add a passenger to a station? How will this 
impact the data structure(s) you use to represent the stations in the 
simulation? 

Answer: I would have to create a station struct that would take the passenger
from the queue/train and into the station. 

5. How will you implement moving a train from one station into the next? 
How will you put passengers onto the train? How will you take off the
correct passengers who are leaving at the next station? How will these 
considerations impact the data structure(s) you use to represent the 
train in the simulation? 

Answer: 

6. Does command behavior change based on the source of commands? 
Based on your answer, how could we modularize our command processing
code? Be as detailed as you can.

Answer: The command behavior should not change based on the source of commands
since the commands would be called in the exact same fashion. The command
processing can modularized by creating separating user input and file inputs.

7. How do you plan to test your program? What evidence of testing do
you plan to submit? 

Answer: I will create tests that test whether a passenger reaches a desired
station, how a train goes around its stations, and how my program handles 
different functions. 

8. What is your timeline for completing this project? What would you like 
to have completed, and by which dates?   

Answer: I would like to complete part 1 by Monday night and part 2 by its
respective due date. 