Names: Dimian Luo,Jeremy Xie
utlns: dluo02, jxie05

Answer the questions below, and submit your answers under the assignment
"gerp Design Checkoff" on Gradescope. You must sign up for a design checkoff
slot with a TA to discuss your provided answers (see spec for sign up link).
Make sure to submit this file *prior* to your design checkoff.

For each question, give as much detail as you feel is necessary.

1. What classes and structs will you implement for your program? For each class,
   provide a list of public functions of that class; for each struct, provide a
   list of member variables.

Answer: We will implement the gerp class that utilizes FSTree and DirNodes to 
        store the processed information. gerp will have at least two public 
        functions, the first will process the directory given by the user, the
        second will process the commands given by the user. Some member 
        variables include, FSTree...
        Additionally, we would need a struct in the index to record each word,
        the file location, line location, and the entire line where the word
        appears. 
        
2. Describe the index that you will build for querying. What specific data
   structures will you use to build this index? *Important*: Bring an
   accompanying drawing of your index structure when you come to your checkoff.

Answer:  The index we will build for querying would resemble a hash table. In
         this case, the index would take the form of a vector that resizes
         whenever there is more words than capacity for the vector. For each
         element in the vector, there would be a key that leads to a specific
         index inside of a vector. Additionally, once inside of the element for
         its respective word, there would be a linked list that contains a
         struct for each iteration of the word's appearance. 

3. To use your index, you will use something for lookup (the key) and you will
   get some associated data back (the value). What are the C++ *types* of your
   index's key and value? Examples of valid types: int, string,
   vector<string>, vector<list<string>>; you may also define custom types using
   structs/classes, e.g., Animal and vector<Animal> are valid types if you
   define a struct/class named Animal. If your key/value types involve custom
   classes/structs, they should be included in your answer to question #1.
                
Answer: 

   Key type: The word
   Value type: Location and contents of the line where the word occurs. This
               will come from a struct that holds the file location, line
               location, and the contents of the line. 

4. Explain what a collision is versus having multiple lines associated with 
   a particular word. Write (and/or draw) out an example of when a 
   collision occurs. Write (and/or draw) out an example of when multiple 
   lines associated with a single word. 

Answer: A collision is when two words have the same lines associated whereas 
        having multiple lines associated with a particular word is closer to a 
        chained hash.

        ex. "apple" and "banana" both return the value 2 (collision)

        ex. "apple" returns a vector of values 2, 3, 4

5. What do you expect the *space* complexity of your index will be? How many
   times will a single line be stored according to your data structures?

Answer:  O(n + m)
         n is the number of lines stored while m the number of words. 
         A single line will be stored as many times for each word that it has. 

6. What is the time complexity of *building* your index? If you refer to some
   variable, be sure to specify what the variable refers to, e.g., in "O(n)",
   state explicitly what "n" is.

Answer: O(n) in the average case, O(n^2) in the worst case
        n in this case would be the number of words present in the entire 
        directory, including subdirectories
                
7. What is the time complexity of *using* your index for lookup? As above,
   be specific about variables you use.

Answer: O(1) in the average case, O(n) in the worst case
        n would be the number of keys in the hash table

8. How will you handle case-sensitive search?
   What is the time complexity (should be close to O(1))?

Answer:  We would handle case-sensistive search by using an ASCII table for
         each character value inside of the string. This way, if two 
         words have the same letters in different cases, their ASCII values
         would differ from each other and would cause them to be classified
         under different words. 

9. How will you handle case-insensitive search?
   What is the time complexity (should be close to O(1))?

Answer:  We would handle case-insensitive search by converting the capital
         letters to their lowercase versions. This could be done by checking
         if a character falls into the uppercase letter ASCII range, and if
         it does, it could be converted into its lowercase form by subtracting
         32 from the ASCII value.


10. How are you handling duplicate words within a line? Consider these two example 
   lines: 

      (i) the cat and the dog 
      (ii) the cat and THE dog 

   If a user does a case sensitive query on line (i) it should report 'the' only 
   once by showing the line only once in the output. How will you do this? 

   If a user does a case insensitive query on line (ii) it should report 'the' 
   only once by showing the line only once in the output. How will you do this? 

Answer: If the user does a case sensitive query, the program searches and 
        finds two occurrences in the line. Because they are both the same 
        line, the set will only store it once to be outputted as they are not 
        unique from another.
        If the user does a case insensitive query, the program first converts 
        both the query and line to lowercase. Then the program searches and 
        finds two occurrences in the line. Because they are both the same 
        line, the set will only store it once to be outputted as they are not
        unique from another.

11. How will you test your implementation and what specific evidence of testing
    will you submit?

Answer: We will test our part one implementation using unit_tests.h as it would
        be easier to isolate our mistakes. We will provide evidence through
        the submission of our unit_tests.h file.
        For our final project we will likely use diff as testing. To provide
        specific evidence of testing we will submit folders and text files that
        we have used to test with.

12. What is your schedule for completing this assignment? Include specific dates
    and the tasks that you would like to accomplish by each date. Do not forget
    testing!

Answer: Week One
        Tuesday Design Checkoff
        Wednesday Part One

        Week Two
        Tuesday Final Submission

Advice
Store the entire file in a data structure
FSTree is given with the intention to get everything set up
Isn't recommended to rely on FSTree and DirNode after the initial point

2D Vectors (other ways can work as well, research)
Minimize both space and time complexity

int doesn't take up a lot of space
each word has file id, line number

vector list of structs
what does that struct have

create a main for phase one to test traverse