Name:
utln:

Answer the questions below, and submit your answers under the
assignment "typewriter Design Checkoff" on Gradescope.  You must
sign up for a design checkoff slot with a TA to discuss your provided
answers (see spec for link).

1. Run the reference implementation using the following command:
`./the_typewriter pingpong.text logfile.text`

Once it is running, do the following:
        a) Type "ping"
        b) Press return
        c) Type "pong"
        d) Press backspace 5 times
        e) Press escape
        f) Type "x"
        g) Type "y"
        h) Press "return"

After doing this, what are the contents of pingpong.text? What about
logfile.text? Paste both below, and *briefly* describe the contents
of logfile.text; what information is logged?

Answer: The contents of pingpong.txt is "ping" followed by 2 empty lines. 
logfile.txt contains information about what I had just typed out and updates
every time the cursor postiion changes or the contents of the text changes.
The cursor position and the contents of what is printed out is logged. 

logfile:
: Cursor Position: [0, 0]

: Cursor Position: [1, 0]
p
: Cursor Position: [2, 0]
pi
: Cursor Position: [3, 0]
pin
: Cursor Position: [4, 0]
ping
: Cursor Position: [0, 1]
ping

: Cursor Position: [1, 1]
ping
p
: Cursor Position: [2, 1]
ping
po
: Cursor Position: [3, 1]
ping
pon
: Cursor Position: [4, 1]
ping
pong
: Cursor Position: [0, 2]
ping
pong

: Cursor Position: [4, 1]
ping
pong
: Cursor Position: [3, 1]
ping
pon
: Cursor Position: [2, 1]
ping
po
: Cursor Position: [1, 1]
ping
p
: Cursor Position: [0, 1]
ping

Do you wish to save before closing (y or n)?



2. Now run the keylogger that was provided with the starter files
(i.e., `./keylogger`). When prompted for a filename, enter
"test.input". Then carry out the exact steps (a)-(h) as stated in
the previous question, except swap steps (a) and (c). Conclude the
keylogger by pressing "escape" two times. You should now have a
file named "test.input". 


Without editing/removing either of the files created in the previous
question, run the reference implementation again, this time sending
it the test input file you just created:
`./the_typewriter pingpong.text logfile.text < test.input`

What are the contents of pingpong.text now? Explain why those are the
contents. If you see anything other than "pongping", try creating the
file test.input again.

Answer: Now, pingpong.text contains the word "pongping." This happens 
because the commands in test.input results in the word "pong" being printed.
However, in pingpong.text, the original file that had the word "ping" in it
is edited so that the inputs in test.input is added before the orginal
contents.


3. What public functions from the TextUI class do you think you will
need to use? Which TextUI function is used to actually display
information on the user's terminal screen? Describe the arguments to
that function.

Answer: I will actually have to use the TextUI's startLogMode, render,
getChar, and close in my code. The function displaySaveMessage will be 
used to display information on the user's terminal screen. displaySaveMessage
will take in the ints given from getTerminalLength and getTerminalWidth.


4. Consider implementing the handling of the input "backspace." What
are the different cases your implementation must consider? What
should your implementation do in each case; specifically, how are the
inputs to TextUI's render() function altered? You should play around
with the reference implementation when coming up with your answers.

Answer: I should consider cases when there is a character to delete, when
there is nothing in the file, and when there is nothing in a line but there
is a preceding line before the current one. When inputing "backspace" when 
there is nothing in the file, I should delete the most recent character in the
string and decrement the cursol column. If there is nothing in the file, I
should do nothing. If there is nothing in the current line but something in a
preceding line, I should decrement the cursor line and change the cursor
column to the index of the last character in the previous line. 


5. How many ActionStack instances will your program use? When are the
different times an Action should be pushed on to one of these
ActionStacks? What information does each Action store?

Answer: I will use two ActionStack instances, one for undoes, and another for
redoes. Whenever a character is typed in, that character should be added to
the "undo" stack. Whenever an input is undone, the input should be added to
the "redo" stack. 


6. Use the reference implementation to play extensively with the
"undo" feature (in typewriter: "escape" then "u"). Try undoing with
many different inputs (printable characters, backspaces, newlines,
etc.) and different combinations of these inputs. Make sure to try
pressing undo multiple times in a row.

What are the rules determining how many characters should be undone
each time "undo" is entered? Express your answer using pseudocode. We
encourage you to write your pseudocode using an ActionStack---this
will more closely match the code you eventually write!

Answer: Whenever the "undo" feature is called, the program takes in if the 
last given input was a backspace or character added. If a character was added,
the "undo" featrues takes in all the added characters until there is a 
backspace input or the line ends. Those characters then get deleted. Vice
versa if the most recent input was a backspace. 


7. Now use the reference to play with "redo" functionality (in
typewriter: "escape" then "r") after undoing actions. Write
pseudocode below capturing the rules for how many characters should
be "redone" each time "redo" is pressed.

Answer: Every time "redo" is pressed, teh same amount of characters that was
just undone would be reverted. The function does not work if "undo" was not
just called. 

8. Consider implementing the "up" arrow key functionality.

   (a) What functions from the TextUI class will you need to use to
       implement "up"?

Answer: I would have to use getTerminalWidth.

   (b) What are the different cases you need to consider for "up"?
       In particular, consider: different lengths of the current line
       (including lines that are long enough to wrap around), where
       the cursor is located, and different lengths for the line prior
       to the current line.

Answer: I would have to consider if the current line is longer than the
previous line. Additionally, I would have to consider if the cursor is at the
first line in the file. 


   (c) Provide pseudocode for the handling of the "up" arrow.



Answer: If the cursor is at the first line in the file, do nothing. If the 
cursor's current position is at a further column than the prior line's maximum
   length, the cursor would go up a row at the end of that row. In all other
   cases, the cursor would stay in the same column but would move to the 
   previous row. 


   (d) Now, provide psuedocode for the handling of the "down" arrow.

Answer: If the cursor is at the last line in the file, do nothing. If the 
cursor's current position is at a further column than the next line's maximum
   length, the cursor would go down a row at the end of that row. In all other
   cases, the cursor would stay in the same column but would move to the 
   previous row. 


9. What classes will you need in your program?  What are the important
functions and member variables that those classes will comprise? How
will the classes interact (i.e., which classes will be clients of
others)?

Answer: I will have to use the TextUI, ActionStack, and the Editor classes
in my program. ActionStack will contain functions that add and remove elements
from the stack and functions that return the size and top of the stack. I plan
to use a list with a back pointer for this class. TextUI contains functions 
that deal with the logistical side of the typewriter. Finally, the editor
class contains functions that edits the contents of the file. The editor class
and ActionStack class are clients of TextUI.


10. How do you plan to test your program? What evidence of testing do
you plan to submit?

Answer: I plan to create test files using the keylogger program. I plan to 
submit test files created by the keylogger command along with output files
created by my program and the demo program. 


11. What is your timeline for completing this project? What would you
like to have completed, and by which dates?  

Answer: before the due date -\(-_-)/-
